CPF Overview - How CPF works
Source: cpf.gov.sg/member/cpf-overview
Last updated: 06 Apr 2026

How CPF works

The Central Provident Fund (CPF) is a key pillar of Singapore's social security system. CPF helps Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents set aside funds to build a strong foundation for retirement.

The three basic needs in retirement

For greater peace of mind in your golden years, it's important to take care of these three needs.

1. A fully paid-up home
Owning a home means you don't have to worry about rent. Strike a balance and buy a property within your means. Your CPF savings eventually form your retirement income. So every dollar you spend on housing could be a dollar less for your retirement needs.

2. Insurance and savings for healthcare
This is where your MediSave savings come in. Think of it as your healthcare savings account. It helps you set aside part of your income for medical expenses such as hospitalisation and outpatient treatments. You can also use MediSave to cover premiums for MediShield Life and other approved medical and long-term care insurance.

3. A steady stream of lifelong retirement income
While we know how much we have saved, we can't predict how long each of us will live. That's why we have CPF LIFE, our national longevity insurance annuity scheme. Get monthly payouts no matter how long you live, so that you can enjoy your CPF savings with greater peace of mind.

Your CPF accounts

As you work and make CPF contributions, you accumulate savings in these three accounts: your Ordinary Account (OA), MediSave Account (MA), and Special Account (SA). At age 55, a Retirement Account (RA) is created for you and your Special Account is closed.

CPF Contribution Rates (from 1 January 2026, for monthly wages > $750)

Employee's age (years) | By employer (% of wage) | By employee (% of wage) | Total (% of wage)
55 and below            | 17                      | 20                      | 37
Above 55 to 60          | 16                      | 18                      | 34
Above 60 to 65          | 12.5                    | 12.5                    | 25
Above 65 to 70          | 9                       | 7.5                     | 16.5
Above 70                | 7.5                     | 5                       | 12.5

Other ways CPF accounts might be opened: Besides employment contributions, CPF accounts will also be opened when the CPF Board receives cash top-ups or government grants. For example, if you make a cash top-up for your child, or when a Singapore Citizen newborn qualifies for a MediSave grant.

How to save more and earn interest

Earn interest of up to 5% per annum if you're below 55. Gain up to 6% per annum if you're 55 and older.

Earn more with compound interest: If you're below 55, for every dollar that you contribute to your SA from your employment, your employer chips in another $0.85, giving you $1.85. This $1.85 will double to $3.70 in about 18 years, and $7.30 in about 35 years. (Computed using the base interest of 4% per annum on your SA)

Government support: The Singapore Government supplements your retirement savings through the Workfare Income Supplement (WIS) Scheme. WIS encourages eligible workers to work and build up their CPF savings for retirement, housing, and healthcare.

Self-employed: If you're self-employed, you need to contribute to MediSave. For your convenience, if you receive service payments from government agencies, they'll deduct a portion of your payment and credit it into your MA.

Make cash top-ups: You can grow your savings by making cash top-ups to either your OA, SA, and MA; or only your MA. By making cash top-ups, you can earn interest even when you're not working or do not have regular CPF contributions.

Matched Retirement Savings Scheme (MRSS): If you're 55 or older and have yet to meet the current Basic Retirement Sum (BRS), you can make cash top-ups to get higher retirement payouts. The Singapore Government will match every dollar of cash top-ups made to your RA, up to a maximum grant of $2,000 a year from 2025, with a $20,000 cap over your lifetime.

Matched MediSave Scheme (MMSS): If you're between 55 to 70 years old and have yet to meet the applicable Basic Healthcare Sum (BHS), you can make cash top-ups to grow your MediSave savings. From 2026, if you are eligible for MMSS, the Singapore Government will match every dollar of cash top-ups made to your MA, up to a maximum grant of $1,000 a year.

Invest your OA and SA savings: You have the option of investing in a wide range of investments to grow your retirement nest egg. If you're not confident of investing on your own, you should leave your savings in your CPF account and earn interest.

Using your CPF

Using your OA savings: Many members use CPF to buy a property or service a housing loan. While you may use your OA savings to pay for your property, consider keeping some savings. These savings can help with future mortgage payments in times of emergency.

Using your MA savings: MediSave is a national savings scheme which helps CPF members save for medical expenses, especially after retirement. You can use your MediSave savings for your own and your dependants' hospitalisation, day surgery, and certain outpatient expenses.

Payment of premiums for insurance coverage: You can use MA savings to pay for yearly premiums on approved insurance plans including ElderShield, CareShield Life, MediShield Life, and other medical insurance.

Retiring well

From age 55, you have the flexibility to withdraw your CPF savings after setting aside the applicable retirement sum in your RA. You can withdraw at any time, whether in full or partially, and as frequently as you like.

Important: You do not have to withdraw all your withdrawable savings at one go. If you do not have an immediate need, you may find it better to leave your savings in your CPF accounts to earn interest of up to 6% per annum.

Monthly payouts for as long as you live: After age 65, you can apply to start receiving lifelong monthly payouts under CPF LIFE. You'll use your RA savings to join CPF LIFE.

Housing monetisation: Silver Housing Bonus (SHB) when you right-size your HDB flat. Lease Buyback Scheme (LBS) when you sell the tail-end of your flat's lease.

CPF Nomination and account closure: Upon death, CPF savings will be paid out and distributed according to your CPF nomination or intestacy laws.
