CPF Housing Scheme - Using your CPF to buy a home
Source: cpf.gov.sg/member/home-ownership/using-your-cpf-to-buy-a-home
Last updated: 06 Apr 2026

Using your CPF to buy a property under the Housing Scheme

Buy a home that you can afford and adopt the right mortgage repayment strategy so that you can preserve savings in your Ordinary Account (OA) for your retirement.

What can you use your OA savings for when buying a home?

Your OA savings can be used to buy a HDB flat, or buy or build private and residential properties in Singapore. OA savings can also be used for downpayment and housing loan taken for the property purchase, stamp and legal fees, loan taken for the construction of your house and the purchase of vacant land (for private properties only), as well as Home Protection Scheme premiums (for HDB flats only).

Eligible property types:
- HDB flats
- Private residential properties in Singapore

4 things to think about when planning for your dream home:

1. Work out your finances
Take a look at some of the things that have financial implications as you build a happy home.

2. Borrow prudently
Find out what you need to consider when deciding between a HDB loan and a bank loan.

3. Maintain an emergency fund and use your OA wisely
Set aside some OA savings that can be used as an emergency fund and better prepare for your retirement. For instance, you can also retain $20,000 at the point of home purchase to pay for your monthly housing instalment in times of need. You can also use cash rather than OA savings to service your housing loan. OA savings not utilised will form part of your retirement fund.

4. Know your housing limits
There are limits to the amount of OA savings you can use for your property. Use the housing usage calculator to estimate the amount.

Balance your use of OA savings with cash

While your OA savings can help you with your housing payments, remember that your CPF savings are for your future retirement needs!

Use a mix of cash and your OA savings for your housing payments, so that you can keep some monies in your OA to earn attractive interest rates. Your OA savings can also act as a safety net for your housing payments.

Therefore, it is important to find a balance between using your cash and OA savings for your housing payments!

Amount to refund when selling your property

CPF is meant for your retirement needs. When you used your CPF savings for your property, your retirement savings is reduced. Hence, when you sell your property, you will need to refund the amount that you have used plus the interest accrued on this amount. This is to restore your retirement savings.

If you have pledged the property to make up your retirement sum, you will also need to refund the pledged amount.

Why should you make a voluntary refund when you are not selling your property?

The earlier you make a voluntary refund, the more interest you will earn to boost your CPF savings for retirement. In addition, you may receive more cash proceeds when you sell your property as you will need to refund lesser to your CPF account.

Home financing services for homeowners:
- Manage housing monthly instalments: Start, change, or stop housing monthly instalments from your CPF savings.
- Make a full or partial housing loan payment: Use your CPF savings to fully or partially pay your housing bank loan.
- Repay overdue housing instalments: Use your CPF savings to repay any overdue housing instalments.

For HDB loan payments, please submit your request through the HDB website.

Common questions:
- How much CPF savings can I use for my property purchase?
- How do I check the amount to be refunded to my CPF account upon the sale of my property?
- Do I need to be insured under Home Protection Scheme?
- Can I use my CPF savings to pay for my housing loan after I turn 55?
