CPF Retirement Withdrawals - Withdrawing for immediate retirement needs
Source: cpf.gov.sg/member/retirement-income/retirement-withdrawals/withdrawing-for-immediate-retirement-needs
Last updated: 06 Apr 2026

Withdrawing for immediate needs

Making a withdrawal for your immediate cash needs is fast, easy, and flexible. Read on to understand the impact of withdrawals on your retirement fund and future payouts.

Withdrawals from age 55 onwards

You can apply to withdraw your CPF savings from age 55 onwards. Check how much you are eligible to withdraw via your Retirement Dashboard. You can make as many withdrawals as you like from your withdrawable savings, so there's no need to take everything out in one go.

Step 1: Plan ahead and keep your Account settings updated
Ensure that your contact details, bank account, and online Daily Withdrawal Limit are updated before making your withdrawal. There may be a 12-hour cooling period for the changes to take effect.

Step 2: Activate CPF Withdrawal Lock to safeguard your savings from scams
Not intending to withdraw soon? Activate the CPF Withdrawal Lock to disable online CPF withdrawals.

Understand withdrawal options from 55

1. For members who have met the Full Retirement Sum
If you have met the Full Retirement Sum (FRS), you can withdraw your excess savings in your Ordinary account.

2. For members who have not met Full Retirement Sum
You can withdraw $5,000 or more from your CPF savings once you reach age 55.

3. For property owners
If you own a property in Singapore, with a lease that lasts you up to at least age 95, you can set aside your FRS with a mixture of property (up to half of your FRS) and cash and withdraw part of your Retirement Account savings.

If you are born before 1 July 1940 and would like to know how much you can withdraw, please write to CPF Board.

Consider your retirement needs and options before making retirement withdrawals

Work out how much you need in retirement:
Use the Retirement Payout Planner to assess whether you have sufficient savings to suit your retirement lifestyle. Making withdrawals from your CPF savings means reduced monthly payouts in the future. Alternatively, your withdrawable savings can be converted to boost your monthly payouts.

Peace of mind vs Investment risk:
Grow your savings worry-free with risk-free interest rates. If you are considering withdrawing your CPF savings to invest in other products, do find out about the risks of these investments and assess your risk appetite. If you prefer not to risk your retirement savings and are looking to get higher returns on your Ordinary Account savings, consider transferring these savings to your Retirement Account to earn higher risk-free returns.

Beware of scams:
Be wary of anyone asking you for your CPF details or to withdraw your CPF savings. If you don't need immediate access to funds, disable online CPF withdrawals instantly with the CPF Withdrawal Lock.

How to make a withdrawal

1. Update your Account settings before submitting a withdrawal application:
   - Update your contact details
   - Update your bank account details
   - Update your preferred Daily Withdrawal Limit (DWL), up to a maximum of $50,000. Note: The default DWL is $2,000.
   Plan ahead as there may be a 12-hour cooling period for the changes to take effect.

2. Submit CPF withdrawal application:
   If you need to withdraw an amount above the maximum DWL of $50,000, alternative options are available.

Common questions:
- How much is my Full Retirement Sum?
- Why do I need to update my registered bank account with CPF Board to my PayNow NRIC-linked bank account to make PayNow withdrawals?
- What type of CPF withdrawals does the online Daily Withdrawal Limit apply to and how do I change it?
