HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) Letter - Application Guide
Source: hdb.gov.sg/buying-a-flat/flat-grant-and-loan-eligibility/application-for-an-hdb-flat-eligibility-hfe-letter
Last updated: 2 December 2025

Application for an HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) Letter

Log in to the HDB Flat Portal using your Singpass to apply for an HFE letter. The HFE letter will provide you with a holistic understanding of your housing and financing options and help you plan your budget before you embark on your home buying journey. Second-timers will also be informed on the resale levy/premium payable for the purchase of a subsidised flat from HDB.

Integrated loan application service

You may request an In-Principle Approval (IPA) from the participating financial institutions (FIs) when you apply for an HFE letter. The IPA will provide you with the FI's indicative loan amount. Your chosen FI(s) will reach out to you directly on the outcome(s) of your IPA application(s) and you will be able to confirm their loan offer(s) through the HDB Flat Portal after you have secured a flat purchase. The service is free of charge.

When to apply

Plan and apply for the HFE letter early.

If you are buying a new flat: You must have a valid HFE letter when you apply to buy a flat from HDB.
If you are buying a resale flat: You must have a valid HFE letter before you obtain an Option to Purchase (OTP) from a flat seller, and when you submit your resale application to HDB.

The processing time is about a month, after we have received the full set of required documents. The processing time may be longer before and during the month of a sales exercise due to high application volume.

Important notes:
- You may only apply for an HFE letter online, and the application is free of charge.
- You may only be listed in 1 HFE letter application, either as an applicant or occupier.
- Your flat application will be processed based on the HFE letter you submitted. Other HFE letters, whether issued earlier or later, will not be considered.

How to apply

Step 1: Check Preliminary HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE)
Step 2: Apply for HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) Letter

Requirements:
- All applicants and required occupiers must have a valid Singpass account.
- You must start Step 1 afresh if there are any changes to the details you have provided.
- The applicant(s) and occupier(s) listed in your new or resale flat application must remain the same as those in your HFE letter application.
- You will not be able to make any changes after you have submitted your HFE letter application. If you need to make changes, you must cancel your HFE letter application and apply for a fresh one.
- Complete Steps 1 and 2 within 30 calendar days of each other.
- If you can, complete both steps within the same calendar month. Otherwise, you will need to update the employment and income details of all persons listed in the application.

Changes to HFE letter application:

If you are at Step 1 (draft): Use the "Back" button to navigate to earlier pages to make changes.
If you have completed Step 1: Select the "Return to Step 1" button under the "Next Steps" section.
If you are at Step 2: Select the "Return to Step 1" button at the top of the page.
If you have completed Step 2 or received an HFE letter: Submit a request via e-Service for contact detail updates, or refer to usage guidelines for other changes.
If you have applied for a flat: Write to MyRequest@HDB with your HFE reference number and sales registration number or resale case number.

Income guidelines

When you apply for an HFE letter, you will be guided to retrieve your information via Myinfo to minimise form-filling and reduce submission of documents. However, in some cases, supporting documents may still be required as Myinfo may not have all the required information or details.

Validity and possible review of HFE letter

Validity: The HFE letter is valid for 9 months from the date of issue. Your flat application will be processed based on the HFE letter you submitted. You may proceed with the flat purchase even if the HFE letter has since expired.

Possible review: The outcome of your HFE letter will be reviewed if:
- Any given information is untrue or incorrect
- You do not comply with any terms and conditions to buy an HDB flat, apply for CPF housing grants and/or take up an HDB housing loan
- There are any changes in your family members, or other circumstances such as changes in HDB's policies

If you book an uncompleted flat with HDB, we will review your financial position nearer the completion of the flat, to confirm that there are no adverse changes in your ability to service the HDB housing loan.

Changes in household details:

The applicant(s) and occupier(s) listed in your new or resale flat application must remain the same as those in your HFE letter application. If there are changes to your household details, this may affect your eligibility and hence invalidate your HFE letter.

For new flat application: The usual financial forfeitures and consequences for the cancellation will apply.
For resale flat application: You will remain liable to the flat seller under the Option to Purchase which you have exercised.

If HFE letter pending approval: Cancel and apply for a fresh HFE letter.
If HFE letter approved (before flat application): Cancel and apply for a fresh HFE letter.
If HFE letter approved (after flat application): Write to MyRequest@HDB.

No action is required if there is only a change in your household income.
